The pyNMS package is a collection of Python (and some C) modules for use in
network management applications. It is also useful for testing and other types
of applications. 

The package as a whole is currently in development, and much of the top-level
NMS functionality (namely, a GUI interface). But, man low-level modules are
still very useful for custom management scripts. 

Some of these modules have external dependecies. These are:

* Python 2.2 (of course)
* pyXML add-on package
* libsmi for the SMI package.

* XXX add more



Some notworthy sub-packages and modules:

SNMP    -- An implementation of SNMP v1 and v2c (Manager only now.. but Agent
           class just needs to be filled in). 
SMI     -- A library, based on wrapping libsmi, for parsing and accessing MIB
           files. 

Devices -- Defines SNMP Manager objects for specific devices. You can create a
	   class that represent as device, and define which MIBs it supports.

POM     -- Python Object Model for XML. This is patterned after XML DOM, but is
           more pythonic. It also incorporates some XPath funcionality. 

HTML    -- Utilities and classes for creating XHTML documents. This is based on
           the POM module. 


XXX Add more (feel free to poke around)



Useful programs:

mib2py  -- "Compiles" MIBs into python form, that the SNMP and Devices packages
	   use. Those packages do not access MIB data directly. This makes your
	   management scripts deliverable to other machines without depending
	   on libsmi. 

dtd2py  -- "Compiles" XML DTDs to a python object form, for use by the POM
	   system. You create XML documents using these classes. It will be
	   self-validating at some point. 8-)

pytelnet-- A telnet client that has added functionality for controlling
	   devices. It is based on the Console object, which can be extended
	   for cotrolling different devices. 

acons   -- Same as pytelnet, but looks up terminal server and associated port
	   in the NMS configuration to conenct to an attached serial device
	   console.

XXX add more

This library is mostly governed by the Lesser GNU Public License (LGPL). If a
module comes from another source then it may have another, more liberal,
license.

